packages/preset-web-fonts/README.md, before:

# @unocss/preset-web-fonts

Web fonts support for [UnoCSS](https://github.com/unocss/unocss).

## Install

```bash
npm i -D @unocss/preset-web-fonts
```

```ts
import presetWebFonts from '@unocss/preset-web-fonts'
import presetUno from '@unocss/preset-uno'

Unocss({
  presets: [
    presetUno(),
    presetWebFonts({
      provider: 'google', // default provider
      fonts: {
        // these will extend the default theme
        sans: 'Roboto',
        mono: ['Fira Code', 'Fira Mono:400,700'],
        // custom ones
        lobster: 'Lobster',
        lato: [
          {
            name: 'Lato',
            weights: ['400', '700'],
            italic: true,
          },
          {
            name: 'sans-serif',
            provider: 'none',
          },
        ],
      },
    }),
  ],
})
```

The following CSS will be generated

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto&family=Fira+Code&family=Fira+Mono:wght@400;700&family=Lobster&family=Lato:ital,wght@0,400;0,700;1,400;1,700&display=swap');

/* layer: default */
.font-lato {
  font-family: "Lato", sans-serif;
}
.font-lobster {
  font-family: "Lobster";
}
.font-mono {
  font-family: "Fira Code", "Fira Mono", ui-monospace, SFMono-Regular, Menlo,
    Monaco, Consolas, "Liberation Mono", "Courier New", monospace;
}
.font-sans {
  font-family: "Roboto", ui-sans-serif, system-ui, -apple-system,
    BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Roboto, "Helvetica Neue", Arial, "Noto Sans",
    sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol",
    "Noto Color Emoji";
}
```

## Providers

Currently supported Providers:

- `none` - do nothing, treat the font as system font
- `google` - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)

PR welcome to add more providers 🙌

## Configuration

Refer to the [type definition](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/blob/main/packages/preset-web-fonts/src/types.ts#L4) for all configurations avaliable.

## License

MIT License &copy; 2022-PRESENT [Anthony Fu](https://github.com/antfu)

Commit message:

feat(web-fonts): add `bunny` web-fonts provider (#1364)

packages/preset-web-fonts/README.md, after:

# @unocss/preset-web-fonts

Web fonts support for [UnoCSS](https://github.com/unocss/unocss).

## Install

```bash
npm i -D @unocss/preset-web-fonts
```

```ts
import presetWebFonts from '@unocss/preset-web-fonts'
import presetUno from '@unocss/preset-uno'

Unocss({
  presets: [
    presetUno(),
    presetWebFonts({
      provider: 'google', // default provider
      fonts: {
        // these will extend the default theme
        sans: 'Roboto',
        mono: ['Fira Code', 'Fira Mono:400,700'],
        // custom ones
        lobster: 'Lobster',
        lato: [
          {
            name: 'Lato',
            weights: ['400', '700'],
            italic: true,
          },
          {
            name: 'sans-serif',
            provider: 'none',
          },
        ],
      },
    }),
  ],
})
```

The following CSS will be generated

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto&family=Fira+Code&family=Fira+Mono:wght@400;700&family=Lobster&family=Lato:ital,wght@0,400;0,700;1,400;1,700&display=swap');

/* layer: default */
.font-lato {
  font-family: "Lato", sans-serif;
}
.font-lobster {
  font-family: "Lobster";
}
.font-mono {
  font-family: "Fira Code", "Fira Mono", ui-monospace, SFMono-Regular, Menlo,
    Monaco, Consolas, "Liberation Mono", "Courier New", monospace;
}
.font-sans {
  font-family: "Roboto", ui-sans-serif, system-ui, -apple-system,
    BlinkMacSystemFont, "Segoe UI", Roboto, "Helvetica Neue", Arial, "Noto Sans",
    sans-serif, "Apple Color Emoji", "Segoe UI Emoji", "Segoe UI Symbol",
    "Noto Color Emoji";
}
```

## Providers

Currently supported Providers:

- `none` - do nothing, treat the font as system font
- `google` - [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/)
- `bunny` - [Privacy-Friendly Google Fonts](https://fonts.bunny.net/)

PR welcome to add more providers 🙌

## Configuration

Refer to the [type definition](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/blob/main/packages/preset-web-fonts/src/types.ts#L4) for all configurations available.

## License

MIT License &copy; 2022-PRESENT [Anthony Fu](https://github.com/antfu)
