docs/presets/uno.md, before:

---
title: Uno preset
description: The default preset for UnoCSS (@unocss/preset-uno)
---

# Uno preset

The default preset for UnoCSS. It's currently equivalent to [`@unocss/preset-wind`](/presets/wind).

[Source Code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-uno)

::: info
This preset inherits [`@unocss/preset-wind`](/presets/wind) and [`@unocss/preset-mini`](/presets/mini).
:::

## Installation

::: code-group
  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm add -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn add -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
  ```bash [npm]
  npm install -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
:::

```ts
// uno.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'unocss'
import presetUno from '@unocss/preset-uno'

export default defineConfig({
  presets: [
    presetUno(),
  ],
})
```

::: tip
This preset is included in the `unocss` package, you can also import it from there:

```ts
import { presetUno } from 'unocss'
```
:::

## Usage

This preset attempts to provide a common superset of the popular utility-first frameworks, including Tailwind CSS, Windi CSS, Bootstrap, Tachyons, etc.

For example, both `ml-3` (Tailwind), `ms-2` (Bootstrap), `ma4` (Tachyons), and `mt-10px` (Windi CSS) are valid.

```css
.ma4 { margin: 1rem; }
.ml-3 { margin-left: 0.75rem; }
.ms-2 { margin-inline-start: 0.5rem; }
.mt-10px { margin-top: 10px; }
```

## Rules

This presets is compactible with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and [Windi CSS](https://windicss.org/), you can refer to their [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) for detailed usage.
For all rules and presets included in this preset, please refer to our [interactive docs](/interactive/) or directly go to the [source code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-uno).

Commit message:

docs: describe preset options (#2434)
Co-authored-by: Anthony Fu <anthonyfu117@hotmail.com>

docs/presets/uno.md, after:

---
title: Uno preset
description: The default preset for UnoCSS (@unocss/preset-uno).
outline: deep
---

# Uno preset

The default preset for UnoCSS. It's currently equivalent to [`@unocss/preset-wind`](/presets/wind).

[Source Code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-uno)

::: info
This preset inherits [`@unocss/preset-wind`](/presets/wind) and [`@unocss/preset-mini`](/presets/mini).
:::

## Installation

::: code-group
  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm add -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn add -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
  ```bash [npm]
  npm install -D @unocss/preset-uno
  ```
:::

```ts
// uno.config.ts
import { defineConfig } from 'unocss'
import presetUno from '@unocss/preset-uno'

export default defineConfig({
  presets: [
    presetUno(),
  ],
})
```

::: tip
This preset is included in the `unocss` package, you can also import it from there:

```ts
import { presetUno } from 'unocss'
```
:::

## Usage

This preset attempts to provide a common superset of the popular utility-first frameworks, including Tailwind CSS, Windi CSS, Bootstrap, Tachyons, etc.

For example, both `ml-3` (Tailwind), `ms-2` (Bootstrap), `ma4` (Tachyons), and `mt-10px` (Windi CSS) are valid.

```css
.ma4 { margin: 1rem; }
.ml-3 { margin-left: 0.75rem; }
.ms-2 { margin-inline-start: 0.5rem; }
.mt-10px { margin-top: 10px; }
```

## Rules
This presets is compactible with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and [Windi CSS](https://windicss.org/), you can refer to their [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) for detailed usage.

For all rules and presets included in this preset, please refer to our [interactive docs](/interactive/) or directly go to the [source code](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages/preset-uno).

## Options

::: info
This preset options are inherited from [`@unocss/preset-mini`](/presets/mini#options).
:::

For more details about the default preset, you can check out our [playground](https://uno.antfu.me/play/) and try out. Meanwhile, you can also check out [the implementations](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/packages).
