packages/README.md, before:

# UnoCSS Packages

| Package | Description | Included in `unocss` | Enabled |
| ------- | ----------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| [unocss](./unocss) | The default package with common presets and plugins | - | - |
| [@unocss/core](./core) | The core library without preset | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/cli](./cli) | Command line interface for UnoCSS | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/preset-uno](./preset-uno) | The default preset | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-mini](./preset-mini) | The minimal but essential rules and variants | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-wind](./preset-wind) | Tailwind / Windi CSS compact preset | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-attributify](./preset-attributify) | Enables Attributify Mode for other rules | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-tagify](./preset-tagify) | Enables Tagify Mode for other rules | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-icons](./preset-icons) | Pure CSS Icons solution powered by Iconify | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-web-fonts](./preset-web-fonts) | Web fonts (Google Fonts, etc.) support | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-typography](./preset-typography) | The typography preset | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-variant-group](./transformer-variant-group) | Transformer for Windi CSS's variant group feature | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-directives](./transformer-directives) | Transformer for CSS directives like `@apply` | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-compile-class](./transformer-compile-class) | Compile group of classes into one class | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/extractor-pug](./extractor-pug) | Extractor for Pug | No | - |
| [@unocss/autocomplete](./autocomplete) | Utils for autocomplete | No | - |
| [@unocss/config](./config) | Configuration file loader | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/reset](./reset) | Collection of common CSS resets | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/vite](./vite) | The Vite plugins | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/webpack](./webpack) | The Webpack plugin | No | - |
| [@unocss/nuxt](./nuxt) | The Nuxt Module | No | - |
| [@unocss/runtime](./runtime) | CSS-in-JS Runtime for UnoCSS | No | - |
| [VS Code Extension](./vscode) | UnoCSS for VS Code | - | - |

Commit message:

feat(preset-rem-to-px): new preset

packages/README.md, after:

# UnoCSS Packages

| Package | Description | Included in `unocss` | Enabled |
| ------- | ----------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| [unocss](./unocss) | The default package with common presets and plugins | - | - |
| [@unocss/core](./core) | The core library without preset | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/cli](./cli) | Command line interface for UnoCSS | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/preset-uno](./preset-uno) | The default preset | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-mini](./preset-mini) | The minimal but essential rules and variants | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-wind](./preset-wind) | Tailwind / Windi CSS compact preset | ✅ | ✅ |
| [@unocss/preset-attributify](./preset-attributify) | Enables Attributify Mode for other rules | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-tagify](./preset-tagify) | Enables Tagify Mode for other rules | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-icons](./preset-icons) | Pure CSS Icons solution powered by Iconify | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-web-fonts](./preset-web-fonts) | Web fonts (Google Fonts, etc.) support | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-typography](./preset-typography) | The typography preset | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/preset-rem-to-px](./preset-rem-to-px) | Coverts rem to px for utils | No | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-variant-group](./transformer-variant-group) | Transformer for Windi CSS's variant group feature | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-directives](./transformer-directives) | Transformer for CSS directives like `@apply` | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/transformer-compile-class](./transformer-compile-class) | Compile group of classes into one class | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/extractor-pug](./extractor-pug) | Extractor for Pug | No | - |
| [@unocss/autocomplete](./autocomplete) | Utils for autocomplete | No | - |
| [@unocss/config](./config) | Configuration file loader | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/reset](./reset) | Collection of common CSS resets | ✅ | No |
| [@unocss/vite](./vite) | The Vite plugins | ✅ | - |
| [@unocss/webpack](./webpack) | The Webpack plugin | No | - |
| [@unocss/nuxt](./nuxt) | The Nuxt Module | No | - |
| [@unocss/runtime](./runtime) | CSS-in-JS Runtime for UnoCSS | No | - |
| [VS Code Extension](./vscode) | UnoCSS for VS Code | - | - |
